README.md, before:

# Simple INI

Simple INI is a Go library for parsing INI files using reflection. It provides a simple and flexible way to map INI file keys to Go struct fields.

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini/actions)
[![Codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/BenBurnett/simpleini/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/BenBurnett/simpleini)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini/blob/main/LICENSE)

## ⚠️ Warning: Project in Development

**This project is currently in active development and may undergo significant changes. Use at your own risk.**

---

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Example](#example)
- [Features](#features)
  - [Implicit Key Name Mapping](#implicit-key-name-mapping)
  - [Overriding Implicit Name Mapping](#overriding-implicit-name-mapping)
  - [Default Values](#default-values)
  - [Comments](#comments)
  - [Custom Delimiter](#custom-delimiter)
  - [Sections and Subsections](#sections-and-subsections)
  - [Custom Types](#custom-types)
  - [Multiline](#multiline)
  - [Slices](#slices)
  - [Environment Variable Expansion](#environment-variable-expansion)
  - [Include Directive](#include-directive)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

To install Simple INI, use `go get`:

```sh
go get github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini
```

## Example

An example usage of Simple INI can be found in the `example` folder. This example demonstrates how to define a struct with `ini` tags and parse an INI file into that struct.

## Features

### Implicit Key Name Mapping

By default, Simple INI maps snake_case keys in the INI file to PascalCase field names in the Go struct. For example, the key `app_name` in the INI file will map to the field `AppName` in the Go struct.

```ini
app_name = MyApp
app_version = 1.0.0
```

```go
type AppConfig struct {
	AppName    string
	AppVersion string
}
```

### Overriding Implicit Name Mapping

You can override the implicit name mapping by using struct tags. For example, if you want the key `ip_address` in the INI file to map to the field `IP` in the Go struct, you can use the following struct tag:

```ini
ip_address = 192.168.1.1
server_name = MyServer
maximum_connections = 100
```

```go
type ServerConfig struct {
	IP             *net.IP `ini:"ip_address"`
	ServerName     string
	MaxConnections int     `ini:"maximum_connections"`
}
```

### Default Values

You can specify default values for fields using the `default` struct tag. These values will be used if the corresponding key is not present in the INI file.

```ini
app_name = MyApp
```

```go
type AppConfig struct {
	AppName    string `default:"DefaultApp"`
	AppVersion string `default:"1.0.0"`
}
```

### Comments

Simple INI supports comments. Lines starting with `;` or `#` are treated as comments and ignored.

```ini
; This is a comment
# This is also a comment
app_name = MyApp
```

### Custom Delimiter

You can specify a custom delimiter for key-value pairs in the INI file. By default, the delimiter is `=`.

```ini
app_name: MyApp
app_version: 1.0.0
```

```go
type AppConfig struct {
	AppName    string
	AppVersion string
}

var config AppConfig
simpleini.SetDelimiter(":")
err := simpleini.Parse(strings.NewReader(iniData), &config)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
fmt.Println(config.AppName)    // Output: MyApp
fmt.Println(config.AppVersion) // Output: 1.0.0
```

### Sections and Subsections

Simple INI supports sections and subsections in the INI file. Sections are defined using square brackets, and subsections can be defined using dot notation.

```ini
app_name = MyApp
app_version = 1.0.0

[database]
host = localhost
port = 5432

[server]
ip_address = 192.168.1.1

[server.logging]
level = debug

[server.logging.file]
path = /var/log/myapp.log
```

```go
type DatabaseConfig struct {
	Host string
	Port int
}

type FileLoggingConfig struct {
	Path string
}

type LoggingConfig struct {
	Level string
	File  FileLoggingConfig
}

type ServerConfig struct {
	IPAddress string
	Logging   LoggingConfig
}

type Config struct {
	AppName    string
	AppVersion string
	Database   DatabaseConfig
	Server     ServerConfig
}
```

### Custom Types

Simple INI supports custom types that implement the `encoding.TextUnmarshaler` interface. This allows you to define custom parsing logic for specific fields.

```ini
date = 2023-10-01
```

```go
type CustomDate struct {
	time.Time
}

func (d *CustomDate) UnmarshalText(text []byte) error {
	parsedTime, err := time.Parse("2006-01-02", string(text))
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
	d.Time = parsedTime
	return nil
}

type Config struct {
	Date CustomDate
}
```

### Multiline

Simple INI supports multiline values for strings. A multiline value continues when the next line starts with a space or tab.

```ini
description = This is a long description
              that spans multiple lines.
```

```go
type Config struct {
	Description string
}
```

### Slices

Simple INI supports parsing slices from multiline values in the INI file. A multiline value continues when the next line starts with a space or tab.

```ini
servers = server1
          server2
          server3
```

```go
type Config struct {
	Servers []string `ini:"servers"`
}
```

**Note:** A slice of custom types will call the `encoding.TextUnmarshaler` for each value. A single custom type will call it with the entire multiline value and can parse it in any way.

### Environment Variable Expansion

Simple INI supports expanding environment variables in values. Environment variables are referenced using the `${VAR_NAME}` syntax.

```ini
path = ${HOME}/myapp/config
```

```go
type Config struct {
	Path string
}
```

### Include Directive

Simple INI supports including other INI files using the `!include` directive. The included file's content will be parsed as if it were part of the original file.

```ini
other_field = i was included
```
```ini
!include other_config.ini

app_name = MyApp
```

```go
type AppConfig struct {
	AppName string
	OtherField string
}
```

## Usage

This example demonstrates how to use several features of Simple INI, including implicit key name mapping, overriding implicit name mapping, default values, custom types, and environment variable expansion.

```ini
app_name = MyApp
app_version = 1.0.0
date = 2023-10-01

[database]
host = localhost
port = 5432

[server]
ip_address = 192.168.1.1
server_name = MyServer
maximum_connections = 100

[server.logging]
level = debug

[server.logging.file]
path = ${HOME}/myapp/logs/app.log
```

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"log"
	"os"
	"time"

	"github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini"
)

type CustomDate struct {
	time.Time
}

func (d *CustomDate) UnmarshalText(text []byte) error {
	parsedTime, err := time.Parse("2006-01-02", string(text))
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
	d.Time = parsedTime
	return nil
}

type DatabaseConfig struct {
	Host string
	Port int
}

type FileLoggingConfig struct {
	Path string
}

type LoggingConfig struct {
	Level string
	File  FileLoggingConfig
}

type ServerConfig struct {
	IPAddress       string `ini:"ip_address"`
	ServerName      string `ini:"server_name"`
	MaxConnections  int    `ini:"maximum_connections"`
	Logging         LoggingConfig
}

type AppConfig struct {
	AppName    string
	AppVersion string
	Date       CustomDate
	Database   DatabaseConfig
	Server     ServerConfig
}

func main() {
	file, err := os.Open("config.ini")
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
	defer file.Close()

	os.Setenv("HOME", "/home/user")

	var config AppConfig
	err = simpleini.Parse(file, &config)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}

	fmt.Println("AppName:", config.AppName)                   // Output: MyApp
	fmt.Println("AppVersion:", config.AppVersion)             // Output: 1.0.0
	fmt.Println("Database Host:", config.Database.Host)       // Output: localhost
	fmt.Println("Database Port:", config.Database.Port)       // Output: 5432
	fmt.Println("Server IP Address:", config.Server.IPAddress) // Output: 192.168.1.1
	fmt.Println("Server Name:", config.Server.ServerName)     // Output: MyServer
	fmt.Println("Max Connections:", config.Server.MaxConnections) // Output: 100
	fmt.Println("Logging Level:", config.Server.Logging.Level) // Output: debug
	fmt.Println("Log File Path:", config.Server.Logging.File.Path) // Output: /home/user/myapp/logs/app.log
	fmt.Println("Date:", config.Date.Format("2006-01-02"))    // Output: 2023-10-01
}
```

## Error Handling

Simple INI returns a slice of errors if any issues are encountered during parsing. You can handle these errors in your code to provide meaningful feedback to the user.

```go
errors := simpleini.Parse(file, &config)
if len(errors) > 0 {
	for _, err := range errors {
		fmt.Println("Error:", err)
	}
}
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request on GitHub.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Add character restriction to keys and sections

README.md, after:

# Simple INI

Simple INI is a Go library for parsing INI files using reflection. It provides a simple and flexible way to map INI file keys to Go struct fields.

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini/actions)
[![Codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/BenBurnett/simpleini/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/BenBurnett/simpleini)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini/blob/main/LICENSE)

## ⚠️ Warning: Project in Development

**This project is currently in active development and may undergo significant changes. Use at your own risk.**

---

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Example](#example)
- [Features](#features)
  - [Implicit Key Name Mapping](#implicit-key-name-mapping)
  - [Overriding Implicit Name Mapping](#overriding-implicit-name-mapping)
  - [Default Values](#default-values)
  - [Comments](#comments)
  - [Custom Delimiter](#custom-delimiter)
  - [Sections and Subsections](#sections-and-subsections)
  - [Custom Types](#custom-types)
  - [Multiline](#multiline)
  - [Slices](#slices)
  - [Environment Variable Expansion](#environment-variable-expansion)
  - [Include Directive](#include-directive)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

To install Simple INI, use `go get`:

```sh
go get github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini
```

## Example

An example usage of Simple INI can be found in the `example` folder. This example demonstrates how to define a struct with `ini` tags and parse an INI file into that struct.

## Features

### Implicit Key Name Mapping

By default, Simple INI maps snake_case keys in the INI file to PascalCase field names in the Go struct. For example, the key `app_name` in the INI file will map to the field `AppName` in the Go struct.

```ini
app_name = MyApp
app_version = 1.0.0
```

```go
type AppConfig struct {
	AppName    string
	AppVersion string
}
```

### Overriding Implicit Name Mapping

You can override the implicit name mapping by using struct tags. For example, if you want the key `ip_address` in the INI file to map to the field `IP` in the Go struct, you can use the following struct tag:

```ini
ip_address = 192.168.1.1
server_name = MyServer
maximum_connections = 100
```

```go
type ServerConfig struct {
	IP             *net.IP `ini:"ip_address"`
	ServerName     string
	MaxConnections int     `ini:"maximum_connections"`
}
```

### Default Values

You can specify default values for fields using the `default` struct tag. These values will be used if the corresponding key is not present in the INI file.

```ini
app_name = MyApp
```

```go
type AppConfig struct {
	AppName    string `default:"DefaultApp"`
	AppVersion string `default:"1.0.0"`
}
```

### Comments

Simple INI supports comments. Lines starting with `;` or `#` are treated as comments and ignored.

```ini
; This is a comment
# This is also a comment
app_name = MyApp
```

### Custom Delimiter

You can specify a custom delimiter for key-value pairs in the INI file. By default, the delimiter is `=`.

```ini
app_name: MyApp
app_version: 1.0.0
```

```go
type AppConfig struct {
	AppName    string
	AppVersion string
}

var config AppConfig
simpleini.SetDelimiter(":")
err := simpleini.Parse(strings.NewReader(iniData), &config)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}
fmt.Println(config.AppName)    // Output: MyApp
fmt.Println(config.AppVersion) // Output: 1.0.0
```

### Sections and Subsections

Simple INI supports sections and subsections in the INI file. Sections are defined using square brackets, and subsections can be defined using dot notation. Sections can contain alphanumeric characters, underscores, and dots, while keys can only contain alphanumeric characters and underscores.

```ini
app_name = MyApp
app_version = 1.0.0

[database]
host = localhost
port = 5432

[server]
ip_address = 192.168.1.1

[server.logging]
level = debug

[server.logging.file]
path = /var/log/myapp.log
```

```go
type DatabaseConfig struct {
	Host string
	Port int
}

type FileLoggingConfig struct {
	Path string
}

type LoggingConfig struct {
	Level string
	File  FileLoggingConfig
}

type ServerConfig struct {
	IPAddress string
	Logging   LoggingConfig
}

type Config struct {
	AppName    string
	AppVersion string
	Database   DatabaseConfig
	Server     ServerConfig
}
```

### Custom Types

Simple INI supports custom types that implement the `encoding.TextUnmarshaler` interface. This allows you to define custom parsing logic for specific fields.

```ini
date = 2023-10-01
```

```go
type CustomDate struct {
	time.Time
}

func (d *CustomDate) UnmarshalText(text []byte) error {
	parsedTime, err := time.Parse("2006-01-02", string(text))
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
	d.Time = parsedTime
	return nil
}

type Config struct {
	Date CustomDate
}
```

### Multiline

Simple INI supports multiline values for strings. A multiline value continues when the next line starts with a space or tab.

```ini
description = This is a long description
              that spans multiple lines.
```

```go
type Config struct {
	Description string
}
```

### Slices

Simple INI supports parsing slices from multiline values in the INI file. A multiline value continues when the next line starts with a space or tab.

```ini
servers = server1
          server2
          server3
```

```go
type Config struct {
	Servers []string `ini:"servers"`
}
```

**Note:** A slice of custom types will call the `encoding.TextUnmarshaler` for each value. A single custom type will call it with the entire multiline value and can parse it in any way.

### Environment Variable Expansion

Simple INI supports expanding environment variables in values. Environment variables are referenced using the `${VAR_NAME}` syntax.

```ini
path = ${HOME}/myapp/config
```

```go
type Config struct {
	Path string
}
```

### Include Directive

Simple INI supports including other INI files using the `!include` directive. The included file's content will be parsed as if it were part of the original file.

```ini
other_field = i was included
```
```ini
!include other_config.ini

app_name = MyApp
```

```go
type AppConfig struct {
	AppName string
	OtherField string
}
```

## Usage

This example demonstrates how to use several features of Simple INI, including implicit key name mapping, overriding implicit name mapping, default values, custom types, and environment variable expansion.

```ini
app_name = MyApp
app_version = 1.0.0
date = 2023-10-01

[database]
host = localhost
port = 5432

[server]
ip_address = 192.168.1.1
server_name = MyServer
maximum_connections = 100

[server.logging]
level = debug

[server.logging.file]
path = ${HOME}/myapp/logs/app.log
```

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"log"
	"os"
	"time"

	"github.com/BenBurnett/simpleini"
)

type CustomDate struct {
	time.Time
}

func (d *CustomDate) UnmarshalText(text []byte) error {
	parsedTime, err := time.Parse("2006-01-02", string(text))
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
	d.Time = parsedTime
	return nil
}

type DatabaseConfig struct {
	Host string
	Port int
}

type FileLoggingConfig struct {
	Path string
}

type LoggingConfig struct {
	Level string
	File  FileLoggingConfig
}

type ServerConfig struct {
	IPAddress       string `ini:"ip_address"`
	ServerName      string `ini:"server_name"`
	MaxConnections  int    `ini:"maximum_connections"`
	Logging         LoggingConfig
}

type AppConfig struct {
	AppName    string
	AppVersion string
	Date       CustomDate
	Database   DatabaseConfig
	Server     ServerConfig
}

func main() {
	file, err := os.Open("config.ini")
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
	defer file.Close()

	os.Setenv("HOME", "/home/user")

	var config AppConfig
	err = simpleini.Parse(file, &config)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}

	fmt.Println("AppName:", config.AppName)                   // Output: MyApp
	fmt.Println("AppVersion:", config.AppVersion)             // Output: 1.0.0
	fmt.Println("Database Host:", config.Database.Host)       // Output: localhost
	fmt.Println("Database Port:", config.Database.Port)       // Output: 5432
	fmt.Println("Server IP Address:", config.Server.IPAddress) // Output: 192.168.1.1
	fmt.Println("Server Name:", config.Server.ServerName)     // Output: MyServer
	fmt.Println("Max Connections:", config.Server.MaxConnections) // Output: 100
	fmt.Println("Logging Level:", config.Server.Logging.Level) // Output: debug
	fmt.Println("Log File Path:", config.Server.Logging.File.Path) // Output: /home/user/myapp/logs/app.log
	fmt.Println("Date:", config.Date.Format("2006-01-02"))    // Output: 2023-10-01
}
```

## Error Handling

Simple INI returns a slice of errors if any issues are encountered during parsing. You can handle these errors in your code to provide meaningful feedback to the user.

```go
errors := simpleini.Parse(file, &config)
if len(errors) > 0 {
	for _, err := range errors {
		fmt.Println("Error:", err)
	}
}
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request on GitHub.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
